__________________________
#physicsC-mechanics-U1 
______________________________
# Newton’s Laws of Motion
Newton’s Laws of Motion are extremely important to memorize, because they are needed to solve all problems about forces.
## Newton's First Law
- *"an object will continue in its state of motion unless compelled to change by a net force impressed upon it."*
- Unless there is an unbalanced force on an object its velocity will not change. If the object is at rest it will stay at rest and if it is moving it will stay moving in a straight line unless acted upon by another force.
- No net force means no change in velocity meaning it could be zero or constant.
- Sometimes referred to as the Law of Inertia. Inertia is the property of objects to naturally resist changes to their state of motion.
- If an object has no net force, meaning it isn’t accelerating, then the object is considered to be in ==equilibrium==. 
## Newton's Second Law
- Predicts what will happen when a net force does act on an object: the object's velocity will change; the object will accelerate.
- The acceleration will be directly proportional to the strength of the net force and inversely proportional to the object's mass.
- The mass of an object is the quantitative measure of its inertia, its resistance to acceleration.
- Forces are represented by vectors, meaning they direction and magnitude, the net force is the sum of all of these vectors.
- The formula will be shown as: $$\boxed {\Sigma F = F\tiny net\normalsize = ma}$$
## Newton's Third Law
- *"to every action, there is an equal, but opposite reaction."* 
- If Object 1 exerts a force on Object 2, then Object 2 exerts a force of equal magnitude but opposite in direction. These two forces are called an action/reaction pair.$$F \tiny 12 \normalsize = -F\tiny 21$$
# Systems of Objects
When given example problems, such as *Atwood machines*, where multiple objects are present, 2 types of approaches can be taken, treating the objects as 2 separate objects, or treating both objects and the pertinent environment as one object, or a ==system==.
- See example problems for application.
