_______________________
#physicsC-mechanics-U2 
_________________
# Drag Forces
## Definitions and Concepts
- Sometimes referred to as Fluid Resistance
- ==Drag forces are forces that act opposite to the relative motion of any object.==
- Drag forces resist an object’s motion through fluids. 
- Drag forces are usually written with a lowercase f: $$\vec f_{Drag}$$
## Air Resistance
- Air resistance is the drag force that occurs for object’s either in freefall or projectile motion.
- ==Air resistance included in a problem means that an object will reach a max velocity (Terminal Velocity) and will be moving at a constant speed.==
- In cases where the air resistance is neglected we can use the ==Law of Falling Bodies, which states if the force of air resistance is ignored then all objects fall at the same rate.==
- The formula for air resistance is: $$\vec f_{air} = -bv$$
- The force of air resistance gets stronger as the object gets faster because they are directly proportional.
- As air resistance increases rapidly, it will eventually be equal to the force of gravity accelerating an object in freefall, as this happen the terminal velocity of the object can be found with the equation: $$v_{terminal} = \frac{mg}{b}$$
## Friction
- When an object is in contact with a surface, the surface exerts a contact force on the object. ==The component of the force that’s *parallel* to the surface is called the **friction force.**==
- When a problem states a surface is “smooth” then friction can be ignored. Conversely, if it states a surface is rough then friction must be accounted for.
- The force of friction is dependent, in general, on two things: the nature of the surfaces and the strength of the normal force.
- The nature of the surfaces is expressed by the coefficient of static friction, represented by the Greek symbol Mu **μ**, the greater the coefficient of friction then the greater the force of friction.
- The coefficient of static friction will always be greater than the coefficient of kinetic friction, because as the coefficient of kinetic friction approaches the coefficient of static friction then the object will no longer be moving. $$\mu_k < \mu_s$$
- In the FRQ section of the exam the information will be presented as: $$\boxed{| \vec F_f|\le\mu|\vec F_N|}$$
#### Static Friction
- When you attempt to push a heavy crate across a floor you have to overcome resistance for the object to move, this is the cause of the static friction.
- ==Occurs when there is no relative motion between the object and the surface (no sliding).==
- Responsible for bike tires and people being able to move.
- As a bike tire rotates and contacts the ground, the point that is touching the ground is instantaneously at rest.
- The formulas for static friction are:$$F_{static \space friction, \space max} = \mu_sF_N \color {magenta} \to \color {lightgray} F_{static \space friction} \le \mu_sF_N$$
#### Kinetic Friction
- As an object slides across a surface it still encounters the force of friction, but as kinetic instead of static.
- ==Kinetic Friction is sliding friction.==
- The formula for kinetic friction is: $$F_{kinetic \space friction} = \mu_kF_N$$
# Spring Force
## Definitions and Concepts
- Spring force is a conservative force and is also a restorative force.
- ==Spring force opposes displacement and want to return to an equilibrium position.==
- This is known as Hooke’s Law.
## Formulas
- ==Hooke’s Law== (used in oscillations [[7.1 Simple Harmonic Motion]]) states: $$F_S = -kx$$ where k is a proportionality constant called the spring constant, which indicates how stiff a spring is. Larger k values indicate a stiffer spring, more resistance to displacement.
- The minus sign tells us that the force and the object’s displacement are always opposite, this is the force wanting to restore to its equilibrium.