__________________________
#physicsC-mechanics-U3
____________________________
# Work
## Definitions and Concepts
* ==Work== is a way to transfer energy from one system to another. Work is a force applied over a distance.
* Work is a scalar quantity but can have negative values. This is a result of the DOT product multiplication. A resulting negative value means the work done by that force is dissipating energy from the system. 
* Another result of the DOT product is that only the component of force that is parallel to the displacement does any work. Any component of a force that is perpendicular to the direction that an object moves cannot do work because the displacement in that direction is zero. $$0 = F\tiny orce\normalsize \perp D\tiny istance\normalsize$$
*  The Unit for work is Joules, denotated by J, also expressed as Newtons times meters. 
## Formulas 
-  The formula for Work is shown as:$$W= \intop^{length}_0 F • dr$$ The force in consideration is denotated by *F*, and *dr* represents an infinitesimally small displacement.
- If the force is constant, it may be removed from the integral to result in: $$W=F\intop^{length}_0 dr$$ which can be simplified using the **==DOT product==** to become: $$W = (Fcos\theta)r$$
- Where R is the displacement.


- The work done by conservative forces is equal to the negative change in potential energy of a system. Conservative force examples are springs and gravity. $$W^{C} = -\Delta U$$
- The work done by non-conservative forces is equal to the change in total mechanical energy of a system as energy is dissipated, sound, heat, light. $$W^{NC} = \Delta E$$