_____________
[[Physics C EMAG]] #physics-electrotism-magnetism-U9 
__________
# Sources
______

# Concepts
__________
# What is Electric Potential Energy?
- Recall the principles of gravitational potential energy, and how it behaves with objects when close to the surface of the Earth. When you lift an object, you do work against gravity, and that work gets stored as potential energy. Release the object, and that stored energy converts to kinetic energy.
- Electric Potential Energy following the same concepts, just working with electric force rather than gravitational.
- When you act against an electric force, you do work, and that work gets stored as electric potential energy in the system.
- Rather than depending on mass like gravity, electric potential energy depends on the charge q of the object,


- The formal definition of electric potential energy is the amount of work required by an **external force** to bring the two charges from infinitely far apart to their current positions.
	- The reason we begin at infinite separation is because that would mean that mathematically in the electric field equation, when radius approaches infinity, then electric field would equal zero, so our electric potential energy also equals zero. This gives us a clean reference point, where all finite separations are measured relative to this zero.

- Conceptually, if you have 2 positive particles that you want to push together, you have to do work to push them together to counteract their repulsive forces. That work is stored as electric potential energy in the system. The closer you push them, the more work you did, so the more energy is stored.



# Electric Potential Energy Equation
$$U_E=\frac{1}{4\pi \epsilon_0}\frac{q_1q_2}{r}$$
- Where U_E is your electric potential energy
- Your q 1 and 2 are your charges, WITH THEIR SIGNS.
- r being the separation between charges

- This formula is directly derived from the integral of force with respect to radius. The derivation is not required for the Ap Exam.

- Understand that U_e is a scalar but the meaning of positive and negative is extremely important.
	- Positive potential energy means the system has stored energy that would be released if the charges flew apart. You had to do positive work to push them together against the repulsion, meaning the system wants to expand. If allowed, the 2 charges would fly apart to infinity.
	- Negative potential energy means you would have to do work to pull them apart. The system is naturally bound together, meaning you did negative work assembling this system because the attractive force helped you, rather than opposed you.



- When working with a system of 3 or more charges, the total electric potential energy is the scalar sum of all pairs of charges, as shown below. $$U_{total}=\sum{\frac{1}{4 \pi \epsilon_0} \frac{q_i q_j}{r_{ij}}}$$
  Meaning if you were given a system of 3 charges, the equation will look like…
  $$U_{total}=\frac{1}{4 \pi \epsilon_0}\left(\frac{q_1 q_2}{r_{12}}+\frac{q_1 q_3}{r_{13}}+\frac{q_2 q_3}{r_{23}}\right)$$



# Work and Potential Energy
$$W=-\Delta U_E=U_i-U_f$$
- Keep in mind this is the work done by the electric force, not by an external agent. 
	- When the electric force does positive work on a charge, the potential energy decreases. 
	- When the electric force does negative work, potential energy increases.
- An external agent assembling the system experiences the opposite, the work done by the an external agent is +U_E.


- Keep in mind that Electric Potential Energy is a property of a system, not of a single charge. This is why in the equation, 2 charges is required, not just 1.
- After recalling the conservation of Mechanical energy formula, we can apply new substitutions with the new equations introduced in this unit.
  $$U_{Ei​}+K_{Ei​}=U_{Ef}​+K_{Ef}$$
  $$\frac{1}{4\pi \epsilon_0} \frac{q_1 q_2}{r_i}+\frac{mv_i^2}{2}=​\frac{1}{4\pi \epsilon_0} \frac{q_1 q_2}{r_f}+\frac{mv_f^2}{2}$$
- We can use this equation to solve for ​problems involving moving particles, which is much simpler and easier than using calculus.