_______
[[Physics C EMAG]] #physics-electrotism-magnetism-U9 
____
# Application of Electric Potential Energy with Conservation of Mechanical Energy
- When a charge moves between two points with different electric potentials, energy is exchanged between electric potential energy and kinetic energy, and the total (net) remains constant.
- We know that…$$\Delta U_E=q \Delta V =q\left({V_f-V_i}\right)$$
- This means that we can define how a particle will behave (speed up or slow down), based on the sign of the equation.


$$ΔU_E​=qΔV<0$$
- If the potential energy decreases, meaning kinetic energy increases, so the particle speeds up.
$$ΔU_E​=qΔV>0$$
- If the potential energy increases, the kinetic energy decreases, so the particle slows down.



# Conservation of Energy in Electric Systems$$U_{E_i}+K_{E_i}=U_{E_f}+K_{E_f}$$$$qV_i​+\frac{1}{2}​mv_i^2​=qV_f​+\frac{1}{2}​mv_f^2​$$
- This equation allows you to solve for any variables missing. The differences in the final and initial velocity should agree with the acceleration of the particle determined by the sign.



# Direction of the Particles
- Positive charges naturally accelerate from high potential to low potential, in the same direction as the electric field.
- Negative charges naturally accelerate from low potential to high potential, opposite to the electric field.

| Charge   | Natural motion | ΔV       | ΔU_E     | ΔKE      |
| -------- | -------------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| Positive | High V → Low V | Negative | Negative | Positive |
| Negative | Low V → High V | Positive | Negative | Positive |





# The Electron Volt
- Since the joule is an astronomically large unit when dealing with atomic particles, so the electron volt is described. 
$$1 eV=(1.6×10^{−19} C)(1 V)=1.6×10^{-19} J$$



# Perpendicular Movement
- If a particle moves perpendicular to an electric field, or along an equipotential line, then the potential difference is zero, so there is no change in speed. 



# 