______________
[[Physics C EMAG]] #physics-electrotism-magnetism-U11 
_____________________
# Electric Current
- In previous units, we have delt mainly with electrostatics, or when charges don’t move but still interact with their surroundings. Now, were going to work with electrodynamics, or the movement of charges.
- The movement of charges across a certain cross sectional area during a time interval $\Delta t$ is the exact definition of current, given by…
$$I=\frac{\Delta q}{\Delta t}=\frac{dq}{dt}$$
- Where….
	- “I” is current measured in Amperes, A
	- dq is an infinitesimally small amount of charge q
	- dt is an infinitesimally small time interval

- Electric current can also be defined as how many coulombs of charge passes a given cross section every second.



## Direction of Electric Current
- We define the direction of electric current as the way all positive test particles will move, from High V to Low V, however this creates a problem
- Remember, the movement of electricity is the movement of electrons, not protons. This creates a contradiction, the conventional direction of current is opposite to the flow of electrons.
	- Don’t let this worry you however; always use conventionally current (high V to Low V) as the conventionally direction (unless explicitly stated), the math will work out the same.


# Drift Velocity
- Think of a wire as a straw, with the outermost material being a rigid lattice body of positive ions, bound tightly together by their own nuclei and inner electrons. Inside the straw is a sea of valance electrons, that have broken free from their parent atoms and are moving freely throughout the metal. 
	- Though the electrons are constantly moving around, bumping into the rigid lattice of positive ions millions of times a second. However, because all the electrons are moving all at once, the average net velocity is zero, so the electric current inside the wire is zero.
- Now, when you connect a source of voltage (such as a battery), an electric field travels throughout the wire, moving from the positive terminal of the battery to the negative terminal. Since electrons are positive, they get pushed towards the positive terminal. 
- However, electrons still bump into the ion lattice, causing random movements in different directions, and at different speeds. But since we are looking at the net velocity of all the electrons, we call the net velocity of all the electrons moving in the direction of net charge transport as the **Drift Velocity**, defined as…
$$I=nqv_dA$$
- Where…
	- I is the current measured in AMPS
	- n is the free charge carrier number density, or the number of free electrons to move in a cubic meter of the material, m^(-3)
	- V_d being the drift velocity, measured in m/s
	- A being the cross sectional area of the wire.

- Note that solving for drift velocity gives you a very small value. This means that the speed electrons travel in a circuit is extremely slow. 
	- But if electrons travel so slowly, then how lights turn on instantly when you flip the switch? This is because the electric field travels through the wire nearly at the speed of light, and all the electrons start moving instantaneously.



# Current Density
- Similar to electric fields, rather than confining the measurement of current to just the movement of electrons through a wire, we can define current as a field quantity, representing how much current flows through a unit of area of a conductor, given by…
$$J=\frac{I}{A}=nqv_b$$
- Where…
	- J is the current density, measured in A/m^2
- This quantity is a vector, it points in the direction that current flows (high V to low V). It is very important when dealing with non-uniform conductors.


# DC vs AC
- Direct Current (AC) is a form of current where current flows in one constant direction. This is the current batteries produce, and it is delt with all throughout unit 11.
- Alternating Current (AC) is when current periodically changes direction oscillating back and forth, which is the current that comes out of light switches.
- In all circuits, charge is still conserved. Whatever flows into the circuit must flow out. Charges cannot accumulate in any part of the circuit. This is mathematically expressed as…
$$\sum I_{in}=\sum I_{out}$$
- The mathematical expression above is the foundation for the Kirchhoff’s Junction rule, which is discussed in 11.7, along with Kirchhoff’s Loop rule.



