#physics-electrotism-magnetism-U11 [[Physics C EMAG]]
________________
# Sources

# Concepts
__________________
### Review
- The electric current in a wire is based on positive charge flow
- An electric potential difference sets up an electric field in a wire.
- Each charge in the wire moves in random directions with different speeds, but the presence of an electric field will cause them to drift from one end of the wire to the other. 
### Electric Circuit
A **Simple Electric Circuit** is any electric loop that consists of a variety of devices through which electric current could flow. 
- An ***Open Circuit*** is an electric circuit through which electric  electric charges are not able to flow.
- A ***Closed Circuit*** is an electric circuit through which electric charges are able to flow. 
- A ***Short Circuit*** is an electric circuit through which electric charges are able to flow but with no change in electric potential difference. 
### Electric Circuit Composition
- Wires (Provides path for charges to flow)
- Batteries (Where charge is stored or originates from)
- Resistors (What is used to get something out of the circuit)
- Lightbulbs (Type of a resistor)
- Capacitors
- Inductors (AC Current only)
- Switches (An alternate or no path for electricity to flow)
- Ammeters (Measurement device)
- Voltmeters (Measurement device)
### Symbols
**Wires**
- Any wire in a schematic diagram is represented by straight line that connect from one element to the next, typically at right angles.
**Battery**
- The symbol for a battery or series of batteries, uses a long line to represent the high electric potential side of the battery and a short line for the low electric potential side.
**Resistor**
- The symbol for any resistor is a jagged line
**Lightbulb**
- The symbol for any lightbulb is a circle with a loop in the circle
**Capacitor**
- The symbol for a capacitor has two parallel equal length lines
**Inductor**
- The symbol for any inductor is a coil between two lines
**Switch**
- The symbol for open switches are two dots and a diagonal line
- The symbol for a closed switch are two dots and a horizontal line
**Ammeter**
- The symbol for an ammeter is a circle with the letter “A” in its center
**Voltmeter**
- The symbol for a voltmeter is a circle with the letter “V” in its center
# Examples





# What is a Circuit?
- The formal definition of a circuit is a closed path of conductors in which current can flow through consciously. If the circuit is not closed, then charge cannot flow, so net current is zero.
- Every circuit has these 3 main components
	- A source of potential difference that drives current, most commonly known as a battery
	- A load, or something that consumes electrical energy, such as a resistor, a bulb, or a motor
	- Connecting Conductors, or wires that connect the load to the source with little to no resistance.

# Electromagnetic Force (EMF)
- Every battery creates an Electromagnetic force, or EMF, formally defined as the work done per unit of charge in a circuit, given as…
$$\epsilon=\frac{dW}{dq}=\frac{W}{q}$$
- Where
	- Epsilon = the EMF, measured in Volts
	- W= Work done by the source, measured in Joules
	- q = the charge being effected by the work, in Columbus

- Despite the name, EMF is not a force; forces are a push or pull measured in newtons. EMF does not define how much force is being acted on per a unit of charge, but rather how much chemical energy can be converted into electric potential energy per charge.
- Although Epsilon is used to express both EMF and Permeability, you will rarely, if ever, have a question in which you deal with both quantities. If you are presented with a question with both quantities, then make sure to define each quantity with separate variables to prevent confusion, and define the change to the AP reader as well.



# What is a Battery?
- A battery does not provide electrons to a circuit, the wire already carries free electrons through a circuit. Instead it provides a potential difference, or voltage, between the positive and negative terminals of the battery.  It does work on charges to ensure that there is a constant voltage between the two terminals.
	- This reinforces the idea from before. The battery does work on all the electrons inside of the wire, pushing them in the direction of the electric field. The electrons want to move from Low V to High V, or from the negative terminal towards the positive terminal, but connecting a battery uses energy from a chemical reaction to push the electrons in the direction of the electric field, or from high V to low V. This is why we define our conventional current from High V to Low V, because that is the direction the electrons move when we connect a battery.

- There are 2 main types to mathematically represent batteries, which are defined as…

## Ideal Batteries
- In theoretical circuits, where everything is controlled in a setting, then we can assume that an ideal battery maintains a perfect constant voltage, that is equal to the EMF, between its two terminals, regardless of how much current flows through the circuit. This is expressed as…
$$V_{terminal}=\epsilon$$

## Real Batteries
- In real world circuits, batteries are made of materials such as glue, certain metals, and chemicals. When electrons move, they collide with these internal materials, creating friction, which causes energy loss in the form of heat. If you were to use a voltameter on a battery, you will see that that its Voltage equals its EMF, but as soon as you connect it to a circuit, the voltage drops, given by…
$$V_{terminal}= \epsilon-Ir$$
- Where
	- r is the resistance, measured in Ohms.

- Often times, a “dead” battery still has its full EMF, but its internal resistance is to high, meaning trying to draw power results in no voltage. 

- Unless specifically stated, on the AP exam, always treat batteries as ideal.



# Ohm’s Law
- When current flows through a material, electrons collide with the ion lattice, causing them to slow down, creating a resistance. Ohm’s law relates these quantities, given by…
$$V=IR$$
- Where
	- V = Voltage, in Volts
	- I = Current, in Amps,
	- R = Resistance, in Ohms.

- This directly relates to how voltage behaves in a circuit. Inside a battery, charges go from -V to +V, so the battery does work, giving the charges energy. In the resistors in the circuit, charges energy decreases by a factor of IR, so the resistors dissipate energy.
- With the relationship with Ohm’s Law, we can track the total change in potential around an entire circuit, given as…
$$V-IR=0$$
$$\epsilon-IR=0$$
- This means that despite all the load in the circuit, the total change in potential must be zero, meaning you end with as much as what you start with. This is formally stated in 11.6 with Kirchhoff’s Voltage Law. In short, a battery adds EMF, a resistor reduces IR.


# Resistors in Circuits
- When resistors are placed one after the other, or in series, you simply sum their resistances, stated as…
$$R_{series}=R_1+R_2+R_3+...$$
- This means the total resistance will always be greater than the resistance caused by just 1 resistor. Adding more resistance in series always increases total resistance and decreases the current.

- When resistors are connected side by side, or parallel, we add the resistances as their reciprocals, and then reciprocate at the end, given by…
$$\frac{1}{R_{parallel}}=\frac{1}{R_1}+\frac{1}{R_2}+\frac{1}{R_3}+...$$
- This is exactly how we add resistors in series. The total resistance is always smaller than each individual resistor in a parallel circuit. Adding more resistance in parallel always decreases total resistance and increases total current drawn from the battery. This is because in parallel circuits, charges have two (or more) paths to flow through, meaning less current is effected by each resistor, meaning less total resistance.