_________________
[[Physics C EMAG]] #physics-electrotism-magnetism-U11 
_____________
# What is Resistance?
- Resistance depends on 2 main factors inside of a resistor, that being the material that the conductors are made of, and the geometry of the conductor.
	- Yes, resistors are conductors, since charge has to flow through them. They may cause resistance, by using weak conductors, but they must allow current to flow or else the circuit will close.
- We can relate these quantities by the 2 following equations…
$$\rho =\frac{E}{J}$$ $$R=\frac{\rho L}{A}$$
- Where…
	- Rho = the resistivity of a material, in Ohms/m
	- E = the electric field inside the conductor, V/m
	- J = Current density in A/m^2
	- R = the total resistance of the conductor, in Ohms
	- L =  the length of the conductor, in m
	- A = the cross sectional area of the conductor, in m^2

- We can interpret many things from these two equations. The more electric field inside a conductor, the more it resists a current flowing through it. The greater the current density, the less resistive a material is. 
- A larger resistivity of a material means a small current density arises from a weak E-field, meaning it is a weak conductor. A small resistivity of a material means a large current density arises from a weak E-Field, meaning it is a strong conductor.
- The thicker the wire (larger the cross section area), the less resistance the current experiences. The longer the wire, the more resistance the current faces, due to increased collisions with the ion lattice.
- The resistivity a material has, the more resistance is on the current (obviously).



# Microscopic Derivation of Ohm’s Law
- By applying Newton’s second law, and the definition of the electric force, we can find the microscopic version of Ohm’s law, for an electron.
$$a=\frac{F}{m_e}=\frac{qE}{m_e}$$
- Since we know acceleration is the change in velocity over time, we can multiply by the time interval to get an equation for our drift velocity, being…
$$v_d=a*\Delta t=\frac{qE\Delta t}{m_e}$$
- We know the equation for charge density from 11.1, which we can use to find…
$$J=nqv_d=\frac{nq^2\Delta t}{m_e}E$$
- Since we know we can relate the resistivity of the material to J, we can solve for our final equation, being…
$$\rho=\frac{E}{J}$$
$$\rho=\frac{m_e}{nq^2\Delta t}$$
- From this new equation, we discover that…
	- The more free electrons, the less the resistivity, and the better a material is conducting.
	- Bigger time interval (more time between collisions), the less resistivity, the better a material is conducting.
	- More charge available on the conductor, the better the conductance.



# Ohmic Vs Non-Ohmic Materials
- Ohmic Materials are materials that maintain the same resistance regardless of current or voltage. Non-Ohmic Materials are materials who’s resistivity changes based on the current and voltage.
	- If you are given a graph where you have current vs voltage, then the slope represents the resistance of the material. If the line is concaved/curved, then you have a non-ohmic material, since its resistivity is changing based on current and voltage. If the line is straight, then the resistivity of the material is constant, and therefore the graphic is represents an ohmic material.
- Diodes, Lightbulbs, and Translators are all examples of non-ohmic materials/circuitry. The AP exam has you work almost exclusively with Ohmic materials, unless stated otherwise.


# Temperature Dependance on Conductivity
$$\rho(T)=\rho_0 [1+\alpha(T-T_0)]$$
- Where
	- rho_0 is the resistivity of a material at a reference temperature (normally at 20 degrees Celsius)
	- alpha the temperature coefficient of resistivity (at degrees Celsius) 
	- T is the actual temperature
 - For metals, the constant alpha is positive, meaning that resistivity increases as temperature increases. The increase in temperature causes electrons to collide more violently with the ion lattice, causing a greater resistance. This is why the longer a lightbulb is on, the hotter it gets, and therefore, it becomes more resistive. 
 - Though Semiconductors haven’t been mentioned yet, there constant alpha is negative. This is because high temperatures release more electrons, which means higher temperatures increases conductivity. 
 - This is NOT a heavily tested concept, and the equation above rarely appears on the AP exam, however the conceptual is important to understand.



# Conductivity
- The less resistive a material is, the more conductive it is, and the same vice versa. Mathematically, we describe this relationship as inversely proportional, so if we reciprocate our pervious equations, we can find our equation for conductivity.
$$σ=\frac{1}{\rho}​=​\frac{nq^2\Delta t}{m_e}​$$
$$J=\frac{E}{\rho}=\sigma E$$
- High conductivity = Low resistivity = Good Conductor

