_____________
[[Physics C EMAG]] #physics-electrotism-magnetism-U11 
_______________
# Electric Power
- We know that in an electric circuit, a battery does work on charges, and resistors dissipate some energy as heat. Since we know that energy is being transferred into other forms, the question arises: at what rate is electrical energy being converted to other forms?
- We can define the rate as electric power, given by…
$$P=I\Delta V$$
- This equation is the most basic form, valid for all electric circuits and components. However, when using Ohms law, we can solve for more variations of power, but only for electric power inside a resistor.
$$P=I\Delta V=I^2R=\frac{(\Delta V)^2}{R}$$
- The unit for power is joules over seconds, expressed as Watts.



# Electric Power in batteries
- For an ideal batter, we substitute EMF to get
$$P_{battery}=\epsilon I$$
- For a real battery, we sub in epsilon - Ir to get…
$$P_{external}=I(\epsilon-Ir)=I^2R_{external}$$
- We are using little r and big R in this equation. This is because the battery has an internal resistance of r, based on the internal materials and chemical reactions discussed before. The external resistance is the resistance on the rest of the circuit.





# Power and Energy
$$U=Pt$$
- Since power is work over time, and work is equal to potential energy, then we can rearrange to solve for the following quantities. For constant power, the following equations are true…
$$U=IΔV⋅t=I^2Rt=\frac{(\Delta V)^2}{R}t$$
# Electric Power in Circuits
- In series, Power is directly proportional to Resistance, noted as…
$$P \space\space\alpha\space\space R $$
- But in Parallel, Power is inversely proportional to resistance, noted as…
$$P \space\space\alpha\space\space \frac{1}{R} $$
- For all circuits, power is conserved, denoted as
$$\sum P_{supplied}=\sum P_{dissapated}$$






