_________________
#physics-electrotism-magnetism-U11 [[Physics C EMAG]]
________
# Compound Circuits
- A Compound Circuit, also known as a complex circuit, is a circuit with multiple components in different forms.  Multiple batteries, conductors, and/or resistors in series AND parallel. This means you need to combine components and do mathematical derivations differently than you would for series or parallel.
- In 11.5, we will focus on Reducible circuits, which are circuits that apply no new concepts to break down. You start with the components that are the “deepest” within the circuit, or furthest away from the battery. You then work outward.
- Some circuits are irreducible, which means they require Kirchhoff’s Laws, which will be covered in 11.6 and 7.




# Step-by-Step Process
1. Find the deepest part of the circuit, or the part furthest away from the battery. You need to be able to identify which components are in parallel vs which ones are in series.
2. Combine the deepest part of the circuit, and work outwards, until you have just 1 resistor and/or capacitor. You will be able to find the current using Ohm’s law. Remember the following principles
3. Take note if there are multiple batteries. If they are pointing the same direction along a loop, you add their voltages. If they point opposite directions, you subtract. However, if the batteries are in their own distinct loops, you cannot simply combine them, in which Kirchhoff’s Rules apply.

## Series
- Current is uniform…
$$I_{total}=I_1=I_2=I_3...$$
- Resistances add…
$$R_{total}=R_1+R_2+R_3...$$
- Voltages also add….
$$\Delta V_{total}=\Delta V_1+\Delta V_2+\Delta V_3...$$
- Capacitance adds…
$$C_{total}=C_1+C_2+C_3...$$
## Parallel
- Current Adds…
$$I_{total}=I_1+I_2+I_3$$
- Resistances add reciprocals…
$$\frac{1}{R_{total}}=\frac{1}{R_{1}}+\frac{1}{R_{2}}+\frac{1}{R_{3}}+...$$
- Voltage is uniform…
$$\Delta V_{total}=\Delta V_1=\Delta V_2=\Delta V_3...$$
- Capacitance adds reciprocals…
$$\frac{1}{C_{total}}=\frac{1}{C_{1}}+\frac{1}{C_{2}}+\frac{1}{C_3}+...$$

