**Deriving the period of a spring**
A spring of spring constant *k*, measured in *N/m*, has an equilibrium length. An object of mass *m* attached to that spring may be displaced from that equilibrium length by a displacement *x.* Let’s set up a number line such that when the object is at the spring’s equilibrium length, x=0. When the spring is compressed, the object has a negative x value for position, and when the spring is stretched, the object’s position is positive. According to Hooke’s Law, the force exerted by the spring on the object is equal to the below expression. Note that when the object’s position is positive, the force points in the negative direction, and vice versa.

$$ F\tiny s \normalsize = -kx $$
According to Newton’s First Law, the acceleration of that object, as a function of position, is: $$ a = -\frac {kx}{m} $$
To derive the period of a spring, we will assume the spring was originally compressed to a position d. Let’s use the Conservation of Mechanical Energy to derive an expression for the object’s velocity as a function of position. Recall that since  we are only considering a half-period, the object’s velocity will always be positive.
$$ KE\tiny i \normalsize \space + \space U\tiny i \normalsize \space + \space W\tiny nonconservative \normalsize = KE\tiny f \normalsize \space + \space U\tiny f \normalsize $$
$$ 0 + \frac12 kd^2 + 0 = \frac12 mv^2 + \frac12 kx^2$$
$$v = \sqrt \frac km \sqrt (d^2-x^2)$$
We can simplify this expression by defining a parameter theta and making the substitution x = -d cos(theta). With this substitution, the object can be said to be moving from “0” (initial compression) to “pi/2” (equilibrium) to “pi” (max stretch).
$$v = \sqrt \frac km \sqrt (d^2-(-d\space cos\theta)^2)$$
$$v = d\sqrt \frac km \sqrt (1-cos^2\theta)$$
$$v = d\sqrt \frac km \space sin(\theta)$$
Let’s make the same substitution for the acceleration function:
$$ a = -\frac {k(-d\space cos\theta)}{m} $$
$$ a = d\frac km cos\theta $$
Now let’s use the definition of acceleration:
$$ a=\frac {dv}{dt} $$
$$ d\frac km cos\theta = \frac d{dt}[d\sqrt \frac km \space sin(\theta)] $$
$$ d\frac km cos\theta = d\sqrt \frac km \space cos(\theta)\space \frac{d\theta}{dt} $$
$$ \frac{d\theta}{dt} = \sqrt \frac km $$
$$ \sqrt \frac mk \space d\theta = dt$$
Now let’s integrate to find a half period. Over a half period starting from full compression, we must integrate theta from 0 to pi and time from 0 to T/2, where T is the complete period.
$$ \int_0^\pi \sqrt \frac mk \space d\theta = \int_0^\frac T2 dt$$
$$ \pi \sqrt \frac mk = \frac12 T $$
$$ T=2\pi \sqrt \frac mk $$
