**Deriving the period of a pendulum**
Consider a pendulum of length *l* with a point mass *m* at its end. Its axis of rotation is perpendicular to the plane through which the pendulum swings and passes through the origin of the Cartesian coordinate system. The pendulum is given an initial angular displacement from the vertical theta i such that it swings from the 4th quadrant to the 3rd, and back to the 4th. To derive the pendulum’s period, we will  calculate 1/2 of its period, from its initial angular displacement to its final angular displacement, which are in equal in magnitude but opposite in sign.

Let’s use the Conservation of Mechanical Energy:
$$ KE\tiny i \normalsize \space + \space U\tiny i \normalsize \space + \space W\tiny nonconservative \normalsize = KE\tiny f \normalsize \space + \space U\tiny f \normalsize $$
$$ 0+mg(-l\space cos\theta\tiny i\normalsize\space)+0=\frac12mv^2+0+mg(-l\space cos\theta\space) $$
$$ \frac12mv^2 = mgl(cos\theta - cos\theta\tiny i) $$
$$v^2=2gl(cos\theta - cos\theta\tiny i)$$
Let’s relate the angular velocity and the linear speed of the point mass, recalling that the angular velocity will be negative because the pendulum swings in the negative direction in the first half of its period:
$$ v=-l\omega $$
$$ v^2=l^2\omega^2 $$
$$ l^2\omega^2 =2gl(cos\theta - cos\theta\tiny i) $$
$$ \omega = -\sqrt{2\frac gl(cos\theta - cos\theta\tiny i)} $$
$$ -\sqrt \frac lg \frac {1}{\sqrt{2(cos\theta - cos\theta \tiny i \normalsize)}} d\theta = dt $$

This differential equation is impossible to integrate with elementary functions. However, we can use the equation below, which approximates cosine, for small angles, to simplify our expression.
$$ cos(t) \approx 1-\frac12t^2 $$
$$ 2(cos\theta-cos\theta\tiny i\normalsize) \approx \theta\tiny i\normalsize^2 - \theta^2 $$
$$ -\sqrt \frac lg \frac {1}{\sqrt{\theta\tiny i\normalsize^2 - \theta^2}} d\theta = dt $$
Now let’s integrate. In a half swing, the pendulum sweeps from an angle theta i to an angle -theta i, from time t=0 to t= T/2.
$$ -\sqrt \frac lg \int_{\theta\tiny i}^{-\theta\tiny i} \frac {1}{\sqrt{\theta\tiny i\normalsize^2 - \theta^2}} d\theta = \int_0^\frac T2 dt $$
$$ -\sqrt \frac lg \int_1^{-1} \frac{1}{\sqrt{1 - u^2}} du = \int_0^\frac T2 dt,\space\space where\space u=\frac{\theta}{\theta\tiny i}$$
Solve the integral using trigonometric substitution or a graphing calculator.
$$ -\sqrt \frac lg (-\pi) = \frac12 T$$
$$ T = 2\pi\sqrt\frac lg $$
Recall that this equation is only an approximation for small initial angular displacements.