____________
#physicsC-mechanics-U4
_______________
# Conservation of Linear Momentum
## Definitions and Concepts
- Newton’s Second Law states that the impulse delivered to an object is equal to the resulting change in its linear momentum.
- Two interacting objects experience equal but opposite momentum changes (assuming there are no external forces). This implies that the total linear momentum of the system remains constant because both objects undergo equal but opposite momentum changes.
- The previous argument can apply to any number of objects so long as the only forces they feel are from each other. This means that ==in an isolated system, the total linear momentum will remain constant.== $$p_i = p_f$$
## Formulas
- “*The impulse delivered to an object is equal to the resulting change in linear momentum*" $$J = \Delta \rho$$
- The ==**Law of Conservation of Linear Momentum**== in equation form (for two object colliding) is: $$m_1 \vec v_{1i}+ m_2 \vec v_{2i} = m_1 \vec v_{1f} + m_2 \vec v_{2f}$$
## Example
- An astronaut is floating in space near her shuttle when she realizes that the cord that’s supposed to attach her to the ship has become disconnected. Her total mass (body + suit + equipment) is 89 kg. She reaches into her pocket, finds a 1 kg metal tool, and throws it out into space with a velocity of 9 m/s directly away from the ship. If the ship is 10 m away, how long will it take her to reach it?
- The solution for this problem would include first solving for the velocity of the astronaut then plugging that value into the velocity = distance over time function along with the distance value given.$$\array{ m_{astronaut} v_{astronaut} + m_{tool} v_{tool} &=& 0 \cr m_{astronaut} v_{astronaut} &=& -m_{tool} v_{tool} \cr v_{astronaut} &=& -\frac{m_{tool}}{m_{astronaut}} v_{tool} \cr &=& -\frac{1 \space kg}{90 \space kg}(-9 \space m/s) = +0.1 \space m/s \cr t = \frac{d}{v} = \frac{10 \space m}{0.1 \space m/s} &=& 100s}$$
# Collisions
## Definitions and Concepts
- ==For all types of collisions linear momentum (ρ) is conserved. ρi = ρf.==
- A system’s total linear momentum is conserved if no net external force exerts on the system. The objects in the system exert forces on each other so these are internal forces, momentum is still conserved.
#### ==Elastic Collisions:==
- **==Kinetic Energy (K) is conserved.==** (If the collision is elastic know that linear momentum is conserved, but also kinetic energy is conserved). Ordinary macroscopic collisions are never truly elastic because there is always a change in energy due to energy transferred as heat, deformation, and sound. However, if the two objects do not deform much or at all (marbles/billiard balls) then the change in energy is small enough to be ignored.
#### ==Inelastic Collisions:==
- ==The resulting Kinetic Energy after the collisions is different that its initial value.== An extreme case of objects being perfectly inelastic are when the object stick together after the collision, these objects will then move together as one.
## Formulas
#### Elastic Collisions
- Since objects bounce off of each other in Elastic Collisions, the objects will have different resulting velocities and move as separate objects. The formula used to solve problems with an elastic collision is: $$m_1v_1+m_2v_2 = m_1 v_1'+m_2v_2'$$
#### Inelastic Collisions
- Since objects in Inelastic Collisions stick together after collision, they will continue to move as a single object with one velocity. Resulting in the formula for inelastic collisions to be: $$m_1v_1 + m_2v_2 = (m_1 + m_2)v'$$
- The formula for finding the velocity of a system’s center of mass will be on the reference sheet as: $$\boxed{\vec v_{cm} = \frac{\varSigma \vec \rho_i}{\varSigma m_i} = \frac{\varSigma m_i\vec v_i}{\varSigma m_i}}$$


## Examples
#### Elastic
- Use the idea that both linear momentum and kinetic energy is conserved to solve problems dealing with elastic collisions. One example is proving a collision is elastic, you use the conservation of kinetic energy since inelastic collisions do not conserve kinetic energy, but elastic collisions do.
#### Inelastic
- Use the idea that the objects move together as one after the collision, linear momentum is conserved but kinetic energy is not, to solve problems such as ones that ask for the velocity of the center of mass of the ball system. Think of the two separate balls colliding and travelling as one after the collision, this is the system. We can use conservation of linear momentum to then solve for the v’ velocity. $$\array{m_1v_{1i} + m_2v_{2i} = (m_1 + m_2)v' \cr v' = \frac{m_1v_1 + m_2v_2}{(m_1+m_2)} \color {magenta} \to \color {white} v' = \frac{\varSigma \vec \rho_i}{\varSigma m_i}}$$