__________________
[[Physics C EMAG]] #physics-electrotism-magnetism-U12 
________________
# Sources
_______________
# Concepts
_________________
#### Definitions
**Poles**: Two ends/faces where magnetic effects are the strongest

**North/South Pole**: the two “sides” of a magnet. The field lines point from North to South

**Magnetic Monopole:** A “one-sided”, does not exist

**Ferromagnetic:** metals alloys, oxides with strong magnetic effects

**Magnetic Field:** the area around magnetic poles where forces occur. It is a vector field that describes the magnetic force exerted on moving charges, electric currents, or magnetic materials. They are created by **Magnetic Dipoles** or combinations of dipoles

**Magnetic Field Lines**:
1. the direction of the magnetic field is tangent to a field line at any point
2. The number of lines per unit area is proportional to the strength of the magnetic field

##### Earths Magnetic Field
- **Magnetic pole:** the location that a north magnet will point towards (is actually a *South Magnetic Pole*) 
- **Geographic Poles:** The locations along the rotational axis
- **True North:** North Geographic Pole
- **Magnetic Declination:** the angular difference between *True North* and *North Pole*
- **Angle of Dip:** The vertical direction the field points at a location on the earth’s surface

#### Uniform Magnetic Field
- The simplest magnetic field is one that is uniform – it doesn’t change in magnitude or direction from one point to another. 
	- The magnetic field between two wide poles of a magnet is nearly uniform, except near the edges.
#### Magnetic Field Created by a Magnetic Dipole
**Spin:** A fundamental property of an electron and can be up or down. The spin of an electron creates a magnetic field.
- Magnetic Dipoles moments are also created by the circular motion of electric charge carriers. Since the circular or rotational motion of charge carriers carriers create magnetic dipoles, magnetic poles always occur in pairs. 
	- A magnetic dipole in an external magnetic field may experience a torque from the magnetic field, causing the dipole (domain) to align with the magnetic field. 
- Magnetism can be included in a material when its magnetic dipoles align with an external magnetic field.
#### Magnetic Permeability (µ)
***Describes a substances ability to form internal magnetic fields***
- Nonmagnetic materials have relative permeabilities very close to 1 and can be classified as diamagnetic or paramagnetic. 
**Paramagnetism**
- In most materials, the net magnetic dipole moment from an electron’s spin is cancelled by a paired electron with opposite spin. In some materials with unpaired or free electrons, these magnetic dipole moments do not cancel. These unpaired electrons have a net magnetic dipole moment. 
	- Paramagnetic materials, like aluminum, gold and copper, are magnetic in the presence of a magnetic field and are nonmagnetic in the absence of one. 
**Ferromagnetism**
- The magnetic moments in a ferromagnetic material align in the absence of external magnetic fields. These areas of alignment are called magnetic domains. 
# Equations
__________
#### Gauss’s Law for Magnetism (Maxwell’s Second Equation)
$$\oint BdA = 0$$
#### Magnetic Permeability
$$\mu_0=4\pi \times 10^{-7} \frac{N}{A^{2}}$$
- *This is a fundamental physical constant that is important when quantifying the magnetic field created by a moving charge carrier. The permeability of free space is relatively low, suggesting that free space does not create an internal magnetic field.*
#### Relative Permeability
$$\mu_r=\frac{\mu}{\mu_0}$$
- By looking at the ratio of a material’s permeability to the permeability of free space we can determine that material’s relative permeability. This gives us an indication of how magnetic that material is.
