____________
#physics-electrotism-magnetism-U8 [[Physics C EMAG]]
__________
# What are Electric Fields?
- Recall that Coulomb’s law requires 2 charged particles to identify the electric force from 1 particle. Scientists did not like this constraint, so they imagined that the second charge is a “test particle” with an infinitesimally small positive charge. In doing so, we can define an electric field as a property of space created by a charge that tells you what electric force a positive test particle would feel at any point. 
  - Understand that Electric field and Electric Force are not the same thing. To understand this, Charge A creates an electric field, and when Charge B is placed in that field, it experiences an electric force. 
  - Electric field is defined as E, where…
$$
E=\frac{F_e}{q_{test}}=k\frac{Q}{r^2}\hat{r}
$$
- In E=F/q, we want to use the test charge because the electric field is defined as the force per unit test charge at a point, making the field independent from the charge used to measure it. In the formal definition, we take the test particle to approach 0 because we don’t want it affecting the magnitude of the electric field.
- The Electric field points away from isolated positive particles (arrows point outward), and points into isolated negative particles (arrows point inward).
- The Units are Newton/Coulomb.


# Uniform vs Nonuniform Electric Fields
- A uniform electric field has the same magnitude and direction everywhere in a region of space. Therefore, the force is uniform throughout the field, so the acceleration of particles within the field is constant.
- A nonuniform electric field has varying magnitude and/or direction from point to point. Therefore, the force is not uniform throughout the field, so the acceleration and the direction of the acceleration is not constant.
- Field lines will always either point towards or away from the source particle, no matter if the field is uniform or not.
- Recall Superposition, if there are multiple charges, then there is most likely a nonuniform field, in which vectors will have to be added vectorially.

# Powerful Equations
$$F_e=qE$$
Since q is the test charge from earlier, we can define the test charge as any charge we want, meaning we can find the electric force of any charge q in an electric field. This equation only applies to Uniform fields.

$$E=k\frac{Q}{r^2}\hat{r}$$
Where Q is the source particle, we can define the strength of the electric field at a radius r. 
Please note the following…
$$
k=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_o}=8.99 * 10^{9} \space N*m^2/C^2
$$
Though K is a constant, it incorporates the concept of permeability, which is how easily electric fields can move through space. Epsilon naught refers to the permeability of free space, or in a vacuum, essentially stating that all the magnitudes of the electric fields we are calculating are assumed to be in a vacuum. The value K is defined on your equation sheet. In most derivations, we tend to denote K as 1/4pi epsillon, but remember that it is just a constant value.
$$\vec{E}=\frac{1}{4\pi\epsilon_0}\intop{\frac{dQ}{r^2}}\hat{r}$$
Above is the most complete variant of the electric field, which includes a calculus understanding. You would use this integral when there are charges spread throughout free space, some closer than others, and some with different directions, which requires you to sum them all up in an integral. You cannot always plug Q into coulombs law, since that requires point charges or spherically symmetric distributions. However, finding your integral bounds requires concepts of charge density and geometric understanding of the objects, (8.4).
$$
\vec E_{net}=\sum \vec{E_i}
$$
Finally, recall that superposition, and how we find the net electric field and/or force by finding each individual force or field and summing them using vector addition.
# Representing Electric Fields:
1. **Vector Maps**: Arrows indicate direction and magnitude (longer arrow = stronger field)
2. **Field Lines**:
	- Direction: Lines originate on positive charges and terminate on negative charges
	- Density: The more field lines the greater the field’s magnitude
	- Rules: Field lines never cross and are always perpendicular to conducting surfaces
