# What is Flux?
- Imagine a river flowing downstream, and you are standing next to the river with a hula hoop. If you insert the hula hoop perpendicular to the water, all the water will flow through the hula hoop. If you were to put the hula hoop parallel in the water, there would be no water flowing through the hula hoop. Additionally, if the stream was flowing with a greater magnitude, then more water would flow through the hula hoop.
- In this situation, the amount of water that flows through the hula hoop represents the flux, which defines the he rate of flow of a physical quantity. 

# Electric Flux
- Electric flux defines the measure of the electric field passing through a surface, given by the equation below.
- When the Electric field is not constant or the surface is closed, we used the following closed surface integral. 
  $$\phi_e=\oint \vec{E}*d\vec{A}=\oint Ecos\theta dA$$
  - In the hula hoop example, the river would e the E-Field, meaning increasing the E-Field directly increases the electric flux. Similarly, the size of the Hula hoop would represent the area, meaning the greater the area of a surface, the greater the flux.
  - dA represents a new concept called an area vector. Its magnitude is proportional to the magnitude of the area.  Its direction points perpendicular to the surface, also known as normal to the surface. Conventionally, the area vector of a closed object is outward. For a surface and/or open object, pick 1 direction as positive and stay with it. 
  - Keep in mind that this is a closed surface integral, not a closed surface integral. The general formula used on the AP exam is a single integral with a circle through it, while the closed surface integral uses two integrals. This is simply a conceptual notation, recognizing that each surface has variable texture and electric field magnitude. The integral simply sums all of these discrepancies together.

- If the electric field is constant across a flat, uniform area, we can drop the integral and use…
$$\phi_e=\vec{E}\bullet\vec{A}=EA\cos(\theta)$$
- Keep in mind that the angle is between the electric field and the area vector, which is perpendicular to the surface. This is not the angle between the electric field and the surface itself. This means that the Electric flux will be maximized when the electric field is parallel to the area vector, or perpendicular to the surface itself.
- Positive flux means electric field exits the surface, negative flux means the flux enters the surface.

- If the electric field is constant but the area isn’t then we can bring the Electric field outside the integral, leaving us just to integrate area.
$$\phi_e=E\oint dA$$
