# What is Flux?
- Imagine a river flowing downstream, and you are standing next to the river with a hula hoop. If you insert the hula hoop perpendicular to the water, all the water will flow through the hula hoop. If you were to put the hula hoop parallel in the water, there would be no water flowing through the hula hoop. Additionally, if the stream was flowing with a greater magnitude, then more water would flow through the hula hoop.
- In this situation, the amount of water that flows through the hula hoop represents the flux, which defines the he rate of flow of a physical quantity. 

# Electric Flux
## General Formula
- Electric flux defines the measure of the electric field passing through a surface, given by the equation below.
- When the Electric field is not constant, the surface is curved, and the surface is closed, we used the following closed surface integral. $$\phi_e=\oint \vec{E}\bullet d\vec{A}=\oint Ecos\theta \space dA$$
  - In the hula hoop example, the river would e the E-Field, meaning increasing the E-Field directly increases the electric flux. Similarly, the size of the Hula hoop would represent the area, meaning the greater the area of a surface, the greater the flux.
  - The differential dA represents a new concept called an area vector. Its magnitude is proportional to the magnitude of the area.  Its direction points perpendicular to the surface, also known as normal to the surface. Conventionally, the area vector of a closed object points outward. For a surface and/or open object, pick 1 direction as positive and stay with it. 
  - Keep in mind that this is a closed surface integral, not a closed line integral. The general formula used on the AP exam is a single integral with a circle through it, while the closed surface integral uses two integrals. This integral is simply a conceptual notation, recognizing that each surface has variable texture and electric field magnitude at different points. The integral simply sums all of these discrepancies together.
  - Note that every object is different. Closed objects are generally more easier to work with than open ones. Uniform electric fields are easier to work with than nonuniform ones. Flat surfaces are easier to work with than curved ones. This is due to the simplification of the formula.
  - Units are in Nm^2/C. Flux is also a scalar, since it is the scalar product of the electric field and the area vector.

## Closed vs Open Surfaces

- When working with Open surfaces, we loose the luxury of notating the integral as just 1 closed surface integral,  we now need to notate the dual integral shown below, called a surface integral.$$\phi_e=\iint \vec{E}\bullet d\vec{A}=\iint{E\cos{\theta} \space dA}$$

  - Unless the problem is setup nicely, this will be traditionally harder to evaluate, since after correct substitution, we are left with two integrals to evaluate.


- Remember, these are the most general forms of these equations. Depending if the field is uniform or not may make your life easier. 

## Uniform vs Nonuniform Electric Fields
  - If the electric field is uniform but the area isn’t then we can bring the Electric field outside the integral, leaving us just to integrate area. This works for both open and closed surfaces.
$$\phi_e=E\oint d\vec{A}=E\cos{\theta}\oint d\vec{A}
$$
$$\phi_e=E\iint d\vec{A}=E\cos{\theta}\iint d\vec{A}
$$
- If the electric field is not uniform, we are forced to placed inside the integral and use substitution to evaluate. 
- Notice how the cosine also jumps outside of the integral. When E field is uniform, it is ensured that the E-Field hits the surface equally at all angles, meaning cosine can also jump outside of the integral.
## Flat vs Curved Surfaces
- When dealing with flat surfaces, cosine can always jump out of the integral, leaving us to decide if E can jump out (Uniform vs Nonuniform field).
$$\phi_e=\cos{\theta}\oint{E}\space dA$$$$\phi_e=\cos{\theta}\iint{E}\space dA$$
- If E-field is uniform, it can also jump out of the integral. 

- If the surface is curved, we cannot pull cosine out of the integral, making the math significantly harder.

- Remember, if E Field jumps outside the integral, so does Cosine, but if Cosine jumps out of the integral, E field doesn’t always.
## Net Flux of Entire Objects
- When given an enclosed object, we need to find the flux going through all individual surfaces of an object, and then sum them together. More on this in Gauss’s Law.
$$\phi_{tot}=\sum{\phi_{i}}$$