# What is Gauss’s Law?
- Gauss’s law is the 1st of the 4 Maxwell’s Equations, which describes all the behavior of all classical electromagnetism. It states that the total electric flux through any closed surface is proportional to the net charge enclosed within that surface. Nothing outside the surface matters.
- This law only works for closed surfaces.
	- When considering how Electric fields work, when there is an open surface the electric field lines can pass through the object freely. If there was a charge surrounded by an open surface, then field lines will pass through the surface and through the openings in the surface. Therefore, we cannot relate flux to eletric field.
	- However, when we are working with closed surfaces, then eletric fields generated by charged particles outside of an object, all field lines that enter an object have to also leave the object, meaning that the net flux is equal to zero. However, all eletric fields lines that originate from particles enclosed in an object have to leave the object, generating a net flux, something that we can use to quantify the Q Enclosed of an object.
# Gauss’s Law Mathematical Representation
$$\phi_e=\oint \vec{E}\bullet d\vec{A}=\frac{Q_{enc}}{\epsilon_0}$$
- This equation essentially summarizes everything stated before, for a closed surface with eletric field E and area A, its eletric flux is equal to the enclosed point charge divided by the permeability of free space.
- Though this equation works, it is only useful when you are able to evaluate the closed surface integral cleanly and affectively, which involves the exploitation of simple geometric shapes and symmetry.

# Gaussian Surfaces
- A Gaussian surface is a completely imaginary, closed surface that you invent for the sole purpose of doing math. It has no physical existence. It exerts no force. It doesn't affect the charges or the field in any way. You surround your charge distribution with the surface, apply Gauss’s law to it, and find the Electric field. In doing so, the surface will disappear mathematically, making it a tool for finding Electric field much easier than working with Coulomb’s law.

- When given the following equation…$$\oint \vec{E}\bullet d\vec{A}=\frac{Q_{enc}}{\epsilon_0}$$
  The right side is trivial to figure out, by counting or integrating the charge inside the surface of an object. The electric field however, can be extremely challenging, due to the difficult calculus and geometric concepts. By defining a Gaussian surface, we can force the Electric field to be Uniform across an area that we define, and when doing so, we can collapse the integral into…$$E*A_{surface}=\frac{Q_{enc}}{\epsilon_0}$$
  Since you would know your area, then our only unknown would be the E Field, which we can solve for.
## Gaussian Sphere
- When were given a charge distribution that is identical in every direction, such as a point charge or a spherical ball, we can define our Gaussian surface as a sphere with the object at the center point of the sphere.
- When we place the charge distribution in the center, the charge distribution looks the same in every direction, so the field must also look the same in every direction at that distance, and same magnitude everywhere, pointing purely radially outward, or inward for negative charge.
- In doing this, the eletric field is constant throughout the entire surface, and it is perpendicular to the surface, or parallel to the area vector, meaning that our angle theta is equal to zero.
- We know our area to be the surface area of radius r that we defined as…
$$A=4\pi r^2$$
- Because our E-Field is now uniform, our integral collapses, leaving us with
$$E*A=\frac{Q_{enc}}{\epsilon_0}$$
- We now need to derive a substitution for Q enclosed, which is also equal to the charge of the entire distribution.$$Q_{enc}=Q_{tot}=\rho*V=\rho\frac{4}{3}\pi r^3$$
- We can now substitute in for area and Q enclosed and simplify to find a representation of the e-field of a point charge and/or spherical charge distribution.
$$E⋅4πr^2=\frac{​\rho \frac{4}{3}\pi r^3}{\epsilon_0}$$
$$E=\frac{\rho r}{3 \epsilon_0}$$
- This final expression allows us to find the magnitude of the E-field, depending on the charge density of the object, and its radius from the center. 
- In FRQ style questions, the College Board will ask us to represent this answer using different variables, depending on the context of the question. Through more substitution, we are able to express this answer in the terms they want, however the form given above is the simplest form.
- Recall that if the E-Field is positive, the E-Field will point away from the object, while if its negative, it will point inward.
## Gaussian Cylinder
- Following the same concepts from earlier, we would use a gaussian surface in the shape of a cylinder, to enclose a charge distribution in the shape of a rod, wire, or cylindrical object.  
- The rod and/or cylindrical object would share the same center axis as the gaussian cylinder, meaning the eletric field would extend radially outward from the center of the object.
- However this time, since our surface is not spherical, we are working with 3 surfaces, being the curved lateral surface of the cylinder, and the 2 end caps of the cylinder.


- We need to imagine how the electric field lines will look based off of the object’s geometry. Keep in mind the electric field points either directly away from the charged rod (positive), or directly into the charged rod (negative).
- This means that the electric field travels exactly perpendicular to the curved lateral surface (because it travels through it), and directly parallel to the 2 end caps of the cylinder.
	- Recalling the area vector, and our formula for electric field, when an electric field is perpendicular to the area vector (or parallel to the surface itself), there is no flux. Therefore, the 2 end caps have 0 net flux, meaning the only surface we have to worry about is the curved lateral surface.

- The derivation begins the same as the last, except we are now working with the surface area of a cylinder without the 2 end caps.
 $$ \oint \vec{E}\bullet d\vec{A}=E*A=E*2\pi r L$$
 Where r is the radius of the gaussian cylinder, and L is the length of the charge distribution.
 - Now, the formula deviates depending on the context of the question. If we have an infinitely long rod of charge Q, with no radius (thin rod), our substitution looks as follows, 

$$Q_{enc}=Q_{tot}=\lambda L $$
- When substituting back into our original formula 
  $$\oint \vec{E}\bullet d\vec{A}=\frac{Q_{enc}}{\epsilon_0}$$$$E*2\pi rL=\frac{\lambda L}{e_0}$$$$E=\frac{\lambda }{2\pi r \epsilon_0}$$
  - However when we are have a cylinder with a quantifiable radius, our equation is different, turning into…
$$Q_{enc}=Q_{tot}=\rho \pi r^2 *L$$
- This substitution is utilizing volume, since we are working with a 3d object. Therefore, we use the volume of a cylinder formula, rather than linear charge density.
- After more substitution and simplification, we are left with.
  $$\oint \vec{E}\bullet d\vec{A}=\frac{Q_{enc}}{\epsilon_0}$$ $$E*2\pi rL=\frac{\rho \pi r^2 *L}{\epsilon_0}$$
$$E=\frac{\rho r}{2 \epsilon_0}$$
- Both derived equations are general formulas that work for the 2 given scenarios. However like all derivations, rather than focusing on memorizing the formulas, understand how to get to this point. The AP exam will have different variants of these 2 formulas. Remember, the sign of the electric field defines its direction.
## Gaussian Planar (Pillbox)
