_________
[[Physics C EMAG]] #physics-electrotism-magnetism-U10 
_________
# Conductors and Insulators
* Material that permit the flow of charge are called **conductors**; they conduct electricity. Metals are the best examples of this, but other conductors are aqueous solutions that contain dissolved electrolytes (Eg. Salt water).
* In the presence of an electric field, the electrons are free to move about the lattice of conductor materials, creating of “sea” of mobile electrons, allowing excess charge to flow freely.
* The outmost electrons in an **insulator** have no such mobility; There is no pathway because the required energy to mobilize electrons is large.
* Between conductors and insulators is a class of materials known as **semiconductors**. They are less conducting than most metals, but more conducting than most insulators (Eg. Silicon and Germanium).
* Extreme examples of conductors are **superconductors**. This is a *perfect* conductors and allows absolutely no resistance to the flow of charge. (Many metals and ceramics at extremely low temps.)
# The 4 Fundamental Properties of Conductors at Electrostatic Equilibrium
- Recall electrostatic equilibrium, the state at which all charges in an object repel and attract each other at a perfect distance, so all charges have stopped moving.
- When a conductor is in electrostatic equilibrium, there are 4 main properties that are always true.

## The E-field is Zero Everywhere INSIDE the conductor
- Why is this the case? If there were any free electrons inside a conductor, they would respond and accelerate accordingly. Since the definition of electrostatic equilibrium is no movement of charges, then this means E-Field must be zero inside a conductor. This is supported by Gauss’s Law.
$$\oint {\vec E} *d\vec{A}=\frac{Q_{enc}}{\epsilon_0}=0$$
## All Excess Charge resides on the Surface
- If there is no charge inside of the conductor, then any excess transferred to the conductor would simply remain on the surface. Since all charges are repelling each other, then they are trying to get as far away from each other as possible, landing them on the surface.

### Cavities
- A cavity is a hollow region inside of a conductor. This could mean that a conductor is hollow (the area inside being the cavity), or just a portion of it is missing.
- There are 2 situations, a cavity that is empty, or a cavity with a charge placed inside.
	- If the region is empty, then there is no net charge inside the cavity. This is because the charges would sit on the outside of the conductor, rather than go inside and fill the space. This is formally called Electrostatic shielding (not required vocabulary for the AP exam, but understand the concept).
	- If the region has a charge inside of it, then the conductor’s surfaces get polarized. If we place a charge +q inside the cavity, then the surface inside the conductor will have a -q, and accordingly, the outside surface of the conductor will have a +q. It will still be in electrostatic equilibrium, but the 2 surfaces of the conductor will have different net charges. If we place a -q, the opposite will happen.


## The E-Field at the Surface of the conductor is parallel to the Area Vector
- E is always perpendicular to the conductor's surface, or parallel to the area vector of the surface; it is never at an angle. If there was any component perpendicular to the area vector, then it would make the charges move across the surface of the conductor, which breaks the rule of no movement in electrostatic equilibrium.
- Recall the formula for the magnitude of E-Field at the surface of a conductor from Gauss’s Law. This is applicable for Conductors at electrostatic equilibrium.
$$E_{surface}=\frac{\sigma}{\epsilon_0}$$

## The Entire Conductor is 1 Equipotential Line
- If we start recall the potential difference formula.
$$\Delta V = -\intop_A^B {\vec E}*{d\vec{s}}$$
- Since we know that E-Field is zero, then we can find that…
$$\Delta V=0 \rightarrow V_A=V_B$$
- This shows that the conductor is one giant equipotential. This means that you can assign a voltage value to an entire conductor, a core principle that is explored in circuits.



# Non-Uniform Charge Distribution on Conductors
- The charge is only uniformly distributed across a conductor’s surface only if the surface is in the shape of a sphere, otherwise the charge is not uniformly distributed.
- Charge concentrates where the surface curves most sharply; at points, edges, and tips. It is least concentrated on flat or gently curved regions. This is because the surface must remain an equipotential. The geometry forces the field lines to concentrate, which causes charge density at one point.


# A Conductor in an Electric Field
- When a conductor is in an external field, it polarizes, charge is induced on 1 side due to the movement of electrons. Say a spherical conductor experiences a negative field from the right. The electrons will all move to the left of the conductor, leaving a positive net charge on the right of the conductor, and a negative net charge on the left, creating an electric field that points from the left side of the conductor to the right. Due to the magnitudes of the external field and the induced field being the same, the E-Fields cancel each other out inside the conductor. This means that…
$$\vec E_{induced}=-\vec E_{external}$$



