__________
[[Physics C EMAG]] #physics-electrotism-magnetism-U10 
_________
# What is a Dielectric? 
- In previous examples, we have assumed that there has been a vacuum between the 2 plates in a capacitor. However, in modern day practice, their is an insulating material between the plates called a dielectric. When implementing a dielectric within the plates, we get numerous benefits.

- When working with dielectrics, they are assigned the value $\kappa$ (kappa). This represents a dimensionless constant that is greater than or equal to 1. This value describes how well a material reduces the electric field inside it relative to a vacuum.

|Material|κ|
|---|---|
|Vacuum|1 (exactly)|
|Air|≈1.0006 (treated as 1)|
|Paper|≈3.5|
|Glass|4–7|
|Water|≈80|
|Ceramic|up to 10,000|

- The electric field is effected by the magnitude of the electric field. As you increase kappa, electric field decreases as such…
$$E_{dielectric}=\frac{E_0}{\kappa}$$


- When we have a dielectric in a capacitor, the equation changes to
$$C=κC0​=\frac{κε_0​A}{d}​​$$
- Since we know epsilon naught represents permeability of free space, we can say that epsilon itself represents permeability itself
$$\epsilon=\epsilon_0 \kappa \rightarrow C=\frac{\epsilon A
}{d}$$
- Since permeability is proportional to capacitance, the greater the permeability, the greater the capacitance, and in turn, the more a material reduces the electric field, the larger the capacitance when placed inside a capacitor.






# Dielectrics in Circuits
- Say our voltage is being held at a constant by a battery, and our capacitor has a dielectric inside of it.
- Capacitance will increase by kappa
$$C_f=\kappa C_o$$
- Charge increases by kappa, due to
$$Q_0= C_0 \Delta V \rightarrow Q_f=\kappa C_0 \Delta V$$
- The electric field is unchanged, since Delta V is constant.
- The energy stored will increase by kappa
$$

U_f= \frac{1}{2}C(\Delta V)^2 = \frac{1}{2}\kappa C_0(\Delta V)^2 = \kappa
U_0$$





- Say however, we don’t have a batter connected…
- Our charge will remain constant, since our battery isn’t supplying any more charge
- Capacitance will still increase by kappa
$$C_f=\kappa C_o$$
- Voltage will decrease by kappa
$$ΔV_f=\frac{Q_0}{\kappa C_0}​​=\frac{ΔV_0}{\kappa}​​$$
- Because our Voltage decreases by kappa, so will the electric field
$$E' = \frac{\Delta V'}{d} = \frac{E_0}{\kappa}$$
- Our energy stored will decrease by kappa
$$
U_f = \frac{Q_0^2}{2\kappa C_0} = \frac{U_0}{\kappa}​​
$$


# Dielectric Breakdown
- Every dielectric has a maximum electric field that it can maintain before it completely breaks down, and the material essentially becomes a conductor. This is called the dielectric strength, or the maximum value E the dielectric can hold until it breaks down. 
- This is why in high voltage electric circuits, the dielectric strength must be extremely high and increasing plate separation can allow capacitors to hold large electric fields without breaking down.



# Microscopic Conceptual Understanding
- There is an electric field inside the dielectric created by the 2 conducting plates. Charges cannot move inside the dielectric, but they can shift slightly to reorganize themselves. 
- Some molecules can polarize, meaning the electrons shift towards the positive plate and away from the negative ones, turning each atom into a mini dipole, one that opposes the external field inside the material. All the induced dipoles inside the dielectric combined create an internal electric field that opposes the external electric field (caused by the 2 conducting plates), reducing the net electric field inside the dielectric. 
- Some molecules are already polarized, so they simply rotate to align with the field when the capacitor receives an electric field.
- As a result of the dielectric, the potential difference across the capacitor decreases, which increases the capacitance. The dielectric does not eliminate the field, it just reduces it.